ID: 
NOME DO RESPONSÁVEL: 
Autor(es): Said A. Hamido, Robert C. Ebel, Kelly T. Morgan
Titulo: Interaction of Huanglongbing and Foliar Applications of Copper on Water Relations of Citrus sinensis cv. Valencia
Subtítulo: 
Ano: 2019
Número de citações recebidas (Google Scholar): 19
Palavras-chave: Xylem, Citrus × sinensis, Canopy, Horticulture, Biology
Resumo: The following study was conducted to determine the impact of frequent foliar Cu applications on water relations of Huanglongbing (HLB)-affected Citrus sinensis cv. ‘Valencia’. HLB in Florida is putatively caused by Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus that is vectored by the Asian citrus psyllid. The experiment was conducted in a psyllid-free greenhouse with trees grown in Immokalee fine sand soil with the trees well-maintained to promote health. Cu was applied to the foliage at 0×, 0.5×, 1×, and 2× the commercially recommended rates, which were 0, 46, 92, and 184 mM, respectively, with applications made 3× in both 2016 and 2017. Previous studies indicate that HLB causes roots to decline before the canopy develops symptoms, which increases the ratio between the evaporative surface area of the canopy to the uptake surface area of roots and increases the hydraulic strain within the tree. In the current study, overall growth was suppressed substantially by HLB and Cu treatments but the ratio between evaporative surface area (leaf surface area) and the uptake surface area of roots (feeder root surface area) was not affected by either treatment. Stem water potential (Ψxylem), which was used as a measure of plant water deficits and the hydraulic strain within the tree, was significantly 13% lower for HLB-affected trees than the non-HLB controls but were not affected by Cu treatments. All Ψxylem measurements were in a range typical of well-watered trees conditions. Stomatal conductance (ks) and root and soil resistances (Rr+s) were not affected by HLB and Cu. The results of this experiment suggest that tree leaf area and feeder roots are reduced when the trees are affected by HLB or are treated with foliar Cu applications such that plant water deficits are not significantly different over that of the controls.
Tipo de documento: article
Editora: Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute
Instituição: Southwest Florida Research
Local: US
Tipo de trabalho: 
Título do periódico: Plants
Quartil do periódico: 
Volume: 8
Número/fascículo: 9
Páginas: 298-298
DOI: 10.3390/plants8090298
Numeração: 
Qualis: 
URL DO DOCUMENTO: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Hp-Y2I_rqBEvvvxur779wS6nW-SVLjeO/view?usp=drivesdk
CURADOR (seleção): 
EMAIL CURADOR (seleção): 
Caracteristicas do solo e região (escrever): O experimento foi conduzido em uma estufa livre de psilídeos no Southwest Florida Research and Education Center (SWFREC) perto de Immokalee, Flórida, EUA. As árvores foram cultivadas em solo de areia fina Immokalee (Sandy, siliceous, hyperthermic Arenic Alaquods). O clima da Flórida é caracterizado por períodos distintos de 'chuva' (junho-setembro) e 'seco' (fevereiro-maio).
ferramentas e técnicas (seleção): RT-PCR, Análise de tecido vegetal (ICP/espectrometria), Câmaras de pressão (bomba de Scholander), Porômetro/Medição de condutância estomática, Rizotrons, Lisímetros de pesagem/medidores de fluxo de seiva
nutrientes (seleção): Cobre (Cu), Nitrogênio (N), Fósforo (P), Potássio (K), Enxofre (S), Magnésio (Mg), Ferro (Fe), Manganês (Mn), Zinco (Zn), Boro (B)
estratégias de fornecimento de nutrientes (seleção): Fertilização foliar, Fertirrigação/Aplicação no solo
grupos de culturas (seleção): Frutas cítricas
culturas presentes (seleção): Laranjeira (Citrus sinensis), Citrumelo Swingle (Citrus paradisi x Poncirus trifoliata), Huanglongbing (HLB) / Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus, Cancro cítrico (Xanthomonas citri subsp. citri)
FEEDBACK DO CURADOR (escrever): Artigo de pesquisa agronômica de alta qualidade, focando na interação entre a doença Huanglongbing (HLB), aplicações foliares de Cobre e as relações hídricas em citros. O estudo é detalhado e fornece dados valiosos sobre a fisiologia da planta sob estresse biótico e químico.
APROVAÇÃO CURADOR (marcar): true
ARTIGOS REJEITADOS: false