ID: 9d11859f-a307-44d6-aaaa-45f9c57e1ff5
NOME DO RESPONSÁVEL: Janaina Morandin
Autor(es): Franz W.R. Hippler; Guilherme Petená; Rodrigo M. Boaretto; José A. Quaggio; Ricardo A. Azevedo; Dirceu Mattos Jr. 
Titulo: Mechanisms of copper stress alleviation in Citrus trees after metal uptake by leaves or roots
Subtítulo: 
Ano: 2018
Número de citações recebidas (Google Scholar): 47
Palavras-chave: copper-based pesticides; toxicity symptoms; sap leakage; oxidative stress; metal homeostasis
Resumo: Nutritional disorders caused by copper (Cu) have affected citrus orchards. Since Cu is foliar sprayed as a pesticide to control citrus diseases, this metal accumulates in the soil. Thereby, we evaluated the effects of Cu leaf absorption after spray of different metal sources, as well as roots absorption on growth, nutritional status, and oxidative stress of young sweet orange trees. Two experiments were carried out under greenhouse conditions. The first experiment was set up with varying Cu levels to the soil (nil Cu, 0.5, 2.0, 4.0 and 8.0 g of Cu per plant as CuSO4.5H2O), whereas the second experiment with Cu application via foliar sprays (0.5 and 2.0 g of Cu per plant) and comparing two metal sources (CuSO4.5H2O or Cu(OH)2). Copper was mainly accumulated in roots with soil supply, but an increase of oxidative stress levels was observed in leaves. On the other hand, Cu concentrations were higher in leaves that received foliar sprays, mainly as Cu(OH)2. However, when sulfate was foliar sprayed, plants exhibited more symptoms of injuries in the canopy with decreased chlorophyll contents and increased hydrogen peroxide and lipid peroxidation levels. Copper toxicity was characterized by sap leakage from the trunk and twigs, which is the first report of this specific Cu excess symptom in woody trees. Despite plants with 8.0 g of Cu soil-applied exhibiting the sap leakage, growth of new plant parts was more vigorous with lower oxidative stress levels and injuries compared to those with 4.0 g of Cu soil-applied (without sap leakage). With the highest level of Cu applied via foliar as sulfate, Cu was eliminated by plant roots, increasing the rhizospheric soil metal levels. Despite citrus likely exhibiting different mechanisms to reduce the damages caused by metal toxicity, such as responsive enzymatic antioxidant system, metal accumulation in the roots, and metal exclusion by roots, excess Cu resulted in damages on plant growth and metabolism when the metal was taken up either by roots or leaves.
Tipo de documento: Artigo
Editora: 
Instituição: 
Local: 
Tipo de trabalho: 
Título do periódico: Environmenatl Science and Pollution Research
Quartil do periódico: SQ
Volume: 
Número/fascículo: 
Páginas: 
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11356-018-1529-x
Numeração: 
Qualis: 
URL DO DOCUMENTO: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mRbx-XNpMr78iu61ueGUq2bk--GP-Hcz/view?usp=drivesdk
CURADOR (seleção): 
EMAIL CURADOR (seleção): 
Caracteristicas do solo e região (escrever): Solo areno-franco (10% argila, 87% areia) com pH 4.6 (CaCl2) e 13 g dm³ de matéria orgânica. As regiões citrícolas estudadas/mencionadas são o norte do Paraná e o estado de São Paulo, Brasil, regiões conhecidas pela produção de citros.
ferramentas e técnicas (seleção): Análise de enzimas antioxidantes, Espectrometria de massas (ICP-OES), Análise foliar (nutrientes), Análise de solo (nutrientes), Análise de Crescimento/Biomassa, Eletroforese (PAGE), Análise química (geral), Modelagem de isoterma (Langmuir)
nutrientes (seleção): Cobre (Cu), Ferro (Fe), Zinco (Zn), Manganês (Mn), Nitrogênio (N), Fósforo (P), Potássio (K), Cálcio (Ca), Magnésio (Mg), Enxofre (S), Boro (B)
estratégias de fornecimento de nutrientes (seleção): Aplicação no solo, Aplicação foliar, Fertirrigação (solução nutritiva basal)
grupos de culturas (seleção): Frutíferas (Citros)
culturas presentes (seleção): Laranja Doce (Citrus sinensis cv. Valencia), Swingle citrumelo (Citrus paradisi × Poncirus trifoliata)
FEEDBACK DO CURADOR (escrever): O artigo é uma pesquisa detalhada sobre a fitotoxidade de Cobre (Cu) em citros, comparando a absorção foliar (sulfato e hidróxido) e radicular. Aborda o impacto nos mecanismos de defesa antioxidantes, crescimento e status nutricional das plantas, sendo altamente relevante para o manejo de pesticidas à base de Cu em pomares de citros.
APROVAÇÃO CURADOR (marcar): true
ARTIGOS REJEITADOS: false