ID: c43e2dd0-18ec-4e44-af0c-d158bf1a95d1
NOME DO RESPONSÁVEL: Janaina Morandin
Autor(es): Fernando César Bachiega Zambrosi; Dirceu Mattos Jr.; James P. Syvertsen
Titulo: Plant growth, leaf photosynthesis, and nutrient-use efficiency of citrus rootstocks decrease with phosphite supply
Subtítulo: 
Ano: 2011
Número de citações recebidas (Google Scholar): 49
Palavras-chave: Nutritional stress; Nutrient solution; Rootstock varieties; Root growth; Uptake efficiency
Resumo: Background and aims Phosphorus (P) is a mobile nutrient in the plant so growth depends on its internal remobilization and a plant’s ability to respond to its availability in the growing media. This study was conducted to evaluate the influence of P status and rootstocks on the patterns of P uptake and remobilization in orange trees. Methods Sweet orange trees on Cleopatra mandarin (CM) or Rangpur lime (RL) rootstocks were grown for nine months in nutrient solution (NS) that was either P-deficient (DNS) or was P-sufficient (SNS). After this period, half of the trees were reciprocally transferred between DNS and SNS (from D to S and S to D), while the others remained in their initial P availability. Results Trees on RL had more shoot and root growth, accumulated more P and had greater efficiency of P absorption and transport to the shoot (PAE) than those on CM. The major source of P for growth was previously stored P even with an adequate current P supply to the roots. This suggested the dominance of P remobilization over P uptake and the requirement that trees had sufficient stored P to meet P demand of new growth. Trees on CM had greater concentrations of remobilized P in new shoots than trees on RL. Conclusion Trees grafted on rootstocks less able to take up P (CM) were more dependent on the internal reserves of P for new growth than rootstocks with higher PAE (RL).
Tipo de documento: Artigo
Editora: 
Instituição: 
Local: 
Tipo de trabalho: 
Título do periódico: Journal of Plant Nutrition and Soil Science
Quartil do periódico: Q1
Volume: 
Número/fascículo: 
Páginas: 
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/jpln.201000320
Numeração: 
Qualis: 
URL DO DOCUMENTO: https://drive.google.com/file/d/17ZDZtzarl6zR1rbw4xeoh1ybyz1tx_ZF/view?usp=drivesdk
CURADOR (seleção): 
EMAIL CURADOR (seleção): 
Caracteristicas do solo e região (escrever): Cultura hidropônica aerada (solução BNS) e solo arenoso nativo esterilizado (Candler sand soil, Typic Quartzipsamments) da Flórida central, EUA. O solo arenoso tinha pH 5.8, baixo teor de matéria orgânica (< 1%) e baixo P extraível (< 10.0 mg kg-1). O estudo foi conduzido em casa de vegetação.
ferramentas e técnicas (seleção): Análise de crescimento radicular (comprimento, massa),Fluorescência da Clorofila (Fv/Fm),Índice SPAD/Clorofilômetro,Análise de gases/Trocas gasosas (fotossíntese),Capillary Electrophoresis,Espectrofotometria de emissão de plasma acoplado indutivamente (ICP-AES),Medição de área foliar
nutrientes (seleção): Fósforo (P),Nitrogênio (N)
estratégias de fornecimento de nutrientes (seleção): Hidroponia,Fertirrigação/Aplicação via solo
grupos de culturas (seleção): Fruteiras (Pomáceas e Cítricas)
culturas presentes (seleção): Cítricas (Laranja, Limão, Lima, Tangerina),Citrus sinensis,Poncirus trifoliata,Citrus aurantium
FEEDBACK DO CURADOR (escrever): 
APROVAÇÃO CURADOR (marcar): true
ARTIGOS REJEITADOS: false